# PD-Analyst-Exercise
Houston Astros Player Development Analyst Technical Assessment – Samantha Kirby

How to run the app 
	The app is consists of one file which is the PD_Assess.R which requires the ability to open a .R file. The app is ready to run as long as the three files provided (goals, pitches, and events) are within the same folder as the app. Currently the first line of code sets up the directory which is placed in a folder called App-1 on the desktop. If this directory isn’t set up the same this will need to be adjusted. Once the directory is adjusted the app can be ran by selecting the run app button in the top right corner. The app window will pop up once successfully ran and from there the ability to adjust between players and trends is quick and effective. 

Architecture Overview
	The app code itself consists of the app side in both front and back end set up as well as the background code that is necessary to manipulate the data for use in the app. The first section of code allows for the input of the csv files followed by the creation of data frames that house the code that will be used by the app. On the front-end of the app, there is a side panel and a main panel. The side panel allows for the ability to switch players and KPI’s that may be important to review. Within the main panel there are three tabs which are broken up by Player Overview, Goals and Trends. Within Player Overview, there are drop down menus that show the full season vs last two-week stats, all individual game stats as well as a reminder of the goals the player is trying to achieve. The app opens with the comparison of the full season and last two weeks already open with the ability to open the remaining drop downs. Moving to the goals tab, the player’s stated goals and their completion levels are output for quick easy access. One assumption that was made regarding the goals was that the goal needed to be met by the end of the season. Meaning if the goal was to decrease BB% to 8% and it was below 8% two weeks before the season ended but wasn’t when the season ended the current set up will have this player as not completing their goal. The last tab is the trends tab which allows for the ease in identifying trends in a player’s season and the KPIs. The sidebar panel allows for the changing of KPIs. The selection in the sidebar panel will automatically change the trend plot when both the player ID is changed and the KPI. These sidebar panels can be changed independently and all main panel tabs will be updated accordingly. 

Performance Considerations 
	Within the Player Overview tab, select drop downs are open at the start of the app because these allow for quick access of information. However, stats such as individual appearances have a much longer log of data so hiding this data at the opening of the app makes it quick to see the player’s summary. Alongside this, the summary card and goal overview are both not searchable due to the simplicity of the information. But the individual appearances card allows for search and sorting of the data as well as cycling through the pages of the appearances for a quick answer to any specific date questions that a player may have on their stats. Additionally, when it comes to performance considerations, I think keeping things simple and effective is the best method. This method was also followed when it came to the player PDF as well. However, all aspects of the app and PDF can be adjusted once more is known about player and coach preferences when it comes to obtaining key information. A tradeoff that was made when it came to performance was trying to create polished app and pdf that functioned efficiently in the time I was provided. With more time, there are multiple other plots, trends, and stats that could be found and implemented within the app that could be useful to coaches. This is just an overview of the type of work that can be done with the data provided. 

Three Example Coach Workflows 
1.	The coach can load the app and select a player and quickly distinguish what goals that player was hoping to achieve at the end of the season. With this the coach would quickly be able to identify the KPIs related to those goals and go see the trends for those KPIs and that player. This would allow for the coach to see how realistic and close those goals are to being achieved. 
2.	The coach can use the app to look at specific KPIs across all players. By getting an idea of what the players are continuing to produce the coach can then adjust coaching methods in order to improve the team’s stats as a whole. 
3.	Being able to quickly identify the seasonal stats of a player in both the short and long term (full season and two weeks) can tell a lot about the progress that a player is making. With this being able to look right below and see individual game stats as well gives the coach a great full picture of that player’s season. 
